WIP: ACM-11775 (needs issue links-peer edits) (#6487)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/hosted_control_planes/add_agents_ibmz.adoc

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz]
= Adding IBM Z agents to the InfraEnv resource (Technology Preview)

> To attach Compute nodes to hosted control plane, you must create agents that will help you to scale the node pool. Adding agents in an IBM Z environment requires additional steps, which are described in detail in this section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To attach compute nodes to a hosted control plane, you create agents that help you to scale the node pool. Adding agents in an IBM Z environment requires additional steps, which are described in detail in this section. 
```
A couple minor revisions here to comply with IBM Style.

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz-kvm]
== Adding IBM Z KVM as Agents

For IBM Z with KVM, run the following command to start your IBM Z environment with the downloaded PXE images from the `InfraEnv` resource. After the Agents are created, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers in the same namespace as the `InfraEnv` resource on the management cluster.

[source,bash]
----
virt-install \
   --name "<vm_name>" \ <1>
   --autostart \
   --ram=16384 \
   --cpu host \
   --vcpus=4 \
   --location "<path_to_kernel_initrd_image>,kernel=kernel.img,initrd=initrd.img" \ <2>
   --disk <qcow_image_path> \ <3>
   --network network:macvtap-net,mac=<mac_address> \ <4>
   --graphics none \
   --noautoconsole \
   --wait=-1
   --extra-args "rd.neednet=1 nameserver=<nameserver>   coreos.live.rootfs_url=http://<http_server>/rootfs.img random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8" <5>
----

<1> Specify the name of the virtual machine.

> <2> Specify the location where the `kernel_initrd_image` file is present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Specify the location of the `kernel_initrd_image` file.
```

> <3> Specify the disk image path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Specify the disk image path.
```

> <4> Specify the Mac address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Specify the MAC address.
```

<5> Specify the server name of the agents.

For ISO boot, download ISO from the `InfraEnv` resource and boot the nodes by running the following command:

[source,bash]
----
virt-install \
  --name "<vm_name>" \ <1>
  --autostart \
  --memory=16384 \
  --cpu host \
  --vcpus=4 \
  --network network:macvtap-net,mac=<mac_address> \ <2>
  --cdrom "<path_to_image.iso>" \ <3>
  --disk <qcow_image_path> \
  --graphics none \
  --noautoconsole \
  --os-variant <os_version> \ <4>
  --wait=-1 \
----
<1> Specify the name of the virtual machine.

> <2> Specify the name of the Mac address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Specify the MAC address.
```

<3> Specify the location of the `image.iso` file.
<4> Specify the Operating system version that you are using.

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz-zvm]
== Adding IBM Z LPAR as Agents

> {ocp-short} 4.16 allows you to add the Logical Partition (LPAR) on IBM Z or IBM LinuxONE as a **Compute node** to a hosted control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With {ocp-short} 4.16, you can add the Logical Partition (LPAR) on IBM Z or IBM LinuxONE as a compute node to a hosted control plane.
```
Revised to comply with IBM Style guidelines.

> === Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
The ACM documentation does not use the Procedure heading.

----

<1> Specify the name of the virtual machine.
<2> Specify the location of the `kernel_initrd_image` file.
<3> Specify the disk image path.
<4> Specify the Mac address.
<5> Specify the server name of the agents.

For ISO boot, download ISO from the `InfraEnv` resource and boot the nodes by running the following command:

[source,bash]
----
virt-install \
  --name "<vm_name>" \ <1>
  --autostart \
  --memory=16384 \
  --cpu host \
  --vcpus=4 \
  --network network:macvtap-net,mac=<mac_address> \ <2>
  --cdrom "<path_to_image.iso>" \ <3>
  --disk <qcow_image_path> \
  --graphics none \
  --noautoconsole \
  --os-variant <os_version> \ <4>
  --wait=-1
----
<1> Specify the name of the virtual machine.
<2> Specify the Mac address.
<3> Specify the location of the `image.iso` file.
<4> Specify the pperating system version that you are using.

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz-zvm]
== Adding IBM Z LPAR as agents

With {ocp-short} 4.16, you can add the Logical Partition (LPAR) on IBM Z or IBM LinuxONE as a compute node to a hosted control plane.

. Create a boot parameter file for the agents.
+
.Sample parameter file:

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 2: @lahinson yes the formatting is off around this line, likely due to spacing issue.

Reviewer: Will fix in a general review of formatting after this PR is merged.

coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=ttysclp0
ip=<ip>::<gateway>:<netmask>:<hostname>::none nameserver=<dns> \// <2>
rd.znet=qeth,<network_adaptor_range>,layer2=1
rd.<disk_type>=<adapter> \// <3>
zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0
ai.ip_cfg_override=1 \// <4>
random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard
----
<1> For the `coreos.live.rootfs_url` artifact, specify the matching `rootfs` artifact for the `kernel` and `initramfs` that you are starting. Only HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.
<2> For the `ip` parameter, manually assign the IP address, as described in _Installing a cluster with z/VM on IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE_.
<3> For installations on DASD-type disks, use `rd.dasd` to specify the DASD where Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) is to be installed. For installations on FCP-type disks, use `rd.zfcp=<adapter>,<wwpn>,<lun>` to specify the FCP disk where RHCOS is to be installed.
<4> Specify this parameter when you use an Open Systems Adapter (OSA) or HiperSockets.

. Generate the `.ins` and `initrd.img.addrsize` files.
+
The .ins file is a special file that includes installation data and is present on the FTP server. It can be accessed from the HMC system.
+

> This file contains details such as mapping of the location of installation data on the disk or FTP server, the memory locations where the data is to be copied.

Reviewer 2: @lahinson recommend we remove self-referential "This file contains" -- this is wordy and against IBM style manual.

+

> *Note*: In {ocp-short} 4.16, the .ins file and 'initrd.img.addrsize' are not automatically generated as part of boot-artifacts from the installer. You must manually generate these files.

Reviewer 2: .ins needs to be tagged, as all references to files do.

Reviewer: Will fix in a general review of formatting after this PR is merged.

.. Run the following commands to get the size of the `kernel` and `initrd`: 
+
[source,yaml]
----
KERNEL_IMG_PATH='./kernel.img'
INITRD_IMG_PATH='./initrd.img'
CMDLINE_PATH='./generic.prm'
kernel_size=$(stat -c%s $KERNEL_IMG_PATH )
initrd_size=$(stat -c%s $INITRD_IMG_PATH)
----
.. Round the `kernel` size up to the next MiB boundary. This value  is the starting address of `initrd.img`.
+
[source,bash]
----
offset=$(( (kernel_size + 1048575) / 1048576 * 1048576 ))
----
.. Create the kernel binary patch file that contains the `initrd` address and size by running the following commands:
+
[source,bash]
----
INITRD_IMG_NAME=$(echo $INITRD_IMG_PATH | rev | cut -d '/' -f 1 | rev)
KERNEL_OFFSET=0x00000000
KERNEL_CMDLINE_OFFSET=0x00010480
INITRD_ADDR_SIZE_OFFSET=0x00010408
OFFSET_HEX=$(printf '0x%08x\n' $offset)
----

.. Convert the address and size to binary format by running the following commands:
+
[source,bash]
----
printf "$(printf '%016x\n' $initrd_size)" | xxd -r -p > temp_size.bin
----

> .. Concatenate the address and size binaries by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: Concatenate? Wonder if there is a better word for this step.

Reviewer: Maybe "combine"?

Reviewer 3: How about "merge". I think that's what it does merge the contents of the two files.

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz]
= Adding IBM Z agents to the InfraEnv resource (Technology Preview)

> To attach compute nodes to a hosted control plane, create agents that will help you to scale the node pool. Adding agents in an IBM Z environment requires additional steps, which are described in detail in this section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To attach compute nodes to a hosted control plane, create agents that help you to scale the node pool. Adding agents in an IBM Z environment requires additional steps, which are described in detail in this section. 
```
Removing future tense, per IBM Style.

   --graphics none \
   --noautoconsole \
   --wait=-1
   --extra-args "rd.neednet=1 nameserver=<nameserver>   coreos.live.rootfs_url=http://<http_server>/rootfs.img random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8" <5>
----

<1> Specify the name of the virtual machine.
<2> Specify the location of the `kernel_initrd_image` file.
<3> Specify the disk image path.
<4> Specify the Mac address.
<5> Specify the server name of the agents.

For ISO boot, download ISO from the `InfraEnv` resource and boot the nodes by running the following command:

[source,bash]
----
virt-install \
  --name "<vm_name>" \ <1>
  --autostart \
  --memory=16384 \
  --cpu host \
  --vcpus=4 \
  --network network:macvtap-net,mac=<mac_address> \ <2>
  --cdrom "<path_to_image.iso>" \ <3>
  --disk <qcow_image_path> \
  --graphics none \
  --noautoconsole \
  --os-variant <os_version> \ <4>
  --wait=-1
----
<1> Specify the name of the virtual machine.
<2> Specify the Mac address.
<3> Specify the location of the `image.iso` file.

> <4> Specify the Operating system version that you are using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Specify the operating system version that you are using.
```

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz-zvm]
== Adding IBM Z LPAR as agents

With {ocp-short} 4.16, you can add the Logical Partition (LPAR) on IBM Z or IBM LinuxONE as a compute node to a hosted control plane.

. Create a boot parameter file for the agents.
+
.Sample parameter file:
[source,yaml]
----
rd.neednet=1 cio_ignore=all,!condev \
console=ttysclp0 \
ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal
coreos.live.rootfs_url=http://<http_server>/rhcos-<version>-live-rootfs.<architecture>.img \// <1>
coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=ttysclp0
ip=<ip>::<gateway>:<netmask>:<hostname>::none nameserver=<dns> \// <2>
rd.znet=qeth,<network_adaptor_range>,layer2=1
rd.<disk_type>=<adapter> \// <3>
zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0
ai.ip_cfg_override=1 \// <4>
random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard
----

> <1> For the `coreos.live.rootfs_url` artifact, specify the matching `rootfs` artifact for the `kernel` and `initramfs` that you are booting. Only HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> For the `coreos.live.rootfs_url` artifact, specify the matching `rootfs` artifact for the `kernel` and `initramfs` that you are starting. Only HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.
```
From IBM Style: "Although _boot_ is widely recognized among technical users, where usage permits use _start_ or _turn on_."

> <2> For the `ip` parameter, assign manually assign the IP address, as described in "Installing a cluster with z/VM on {ibm-z-name} and {ibm-linuxone-name}".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> For the `ip` parameter, manually assign the IP address, as described in _Installing a cluster with z/VM on IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE_.
```
The RHACM docs repo does not contain attributes for IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE.

> <3> For installations on DASD-type disks, use `rd.dasd` to specify the DASD where {op-system-first} is to be installed. For installations on FCP-type disks, use `rd.zfcp=<adapter>,<wwpn>,<lun>` to specify the FCP disk where {op-system} is to be installed.

Reviewer: The RHACM repo does not contain the `{op-system-first}` or the `{op-system}` attributes. 
```suggestion
<3> For installations on DASD-type disks, use `rd.dasd` to specify the DASD where Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) is to be installed. For installations on FCP-type disks, use `rd.zfcp=<adapter>,<wwpn>,<lun>` to specify the FCP disk where RHCOS is to be installed.
```

> <4> Specify this parameter when using an OSA network adapter or Hipersockets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Specify this parameter when you use an Open Systems Adapter (OSA) or HiperSockets.
```

. Generate the `.ins` and `initrd.img.addrsize` files.
+

> The .ins file is a special file that includes installation data and is present on the FTP server. It can be accessed from the HMC system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.ins` file includes installation data and is present on the FTP server. It can be accessed from the HMC system.
```

+
This file contains details such as mapping of the location of installation data on the disk or FTP server, the memory locations where the data is to be copied.
+

> **Note**: In {ocp-short} 4.16, the .ins file and 'initrd.img.addrsize' are not automatically generated as part of boot-artifacts from the installer. You must generate these files manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note*: In {ocp-short} 4.16, the `.ins` file and 'initrd.img.addrsize' are not automatically generated as part of boot-artifacts from the installer. You must manually generate these files.
```

> .. Run the following commands to get the size of the kernel and initrd. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Run the following commands to get the size of the `kernel` and `initrd`:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
KERNEL_IMG_PATH='./kernel.img'
INITRD_IMG_PATH='./initrd.img'
CMDLINE_PATH='./generic.prm'
kernel_size=$(stat -c%s $KERNEL_IMG_PATH )
initrd_size=$(stat -c%s $INITRD_IMG_PATH)
----

> .. Round the kernel size up to the next MiB boundary. This will be the starting address of initrd.img.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Round the `kernel` size up to the next MiB boundary. This value is the starting address of `initrd.img`.
```
A couple small revisions to comply with IBM Style (making pronouns clear, using present tense instead of future tense).

+
[source,bash]
----
offset=$(( (kernel_size + 1048575) / 1048576 * 1048576 ))
----

> .. Create the kernel binary patch file holding the `initrd` address and size by running the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Create the kernel binary patch file that contains the `initrd` address and size by running the following commands:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
INITRD_IMG_NAME=$(echo $INITRD_IMG_PATH | rev | cut -d '/' -f 1 | rev)
KERNEL_OFFSET=0x00000000
KERNEL_CMDLINE_OFFSET=0x00010480
INITRD_ADDR_SIZE_OFFSET=0x00010408
OFFSET_HEX=$(printf '0x%08x\n' $offset)
----

> .. Convert address and size to binary format by running the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Convert the address and size to binary format by running the following commands:
```

> +

Reviewer: Per documentation guidelines, do not include more than one command in a code block. I revised lines 123 - 132 below to split the two commands into two separate code blocks.

[source,bash]
----
printf "$(printf '%016x\n' $offset)" | xxd -r -p > temp_address.bin

> printf "$(printf '%016x\n' $initrd_size)" | xxd -r -p > temp_size.bin

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[source,bash]
----
printf "$(printf '%016x\n' $initrd_size)" | xxd -r -p > temp_size.bin
----
```

> .. Concatenate address and size binaries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Concatenate the address and size binaries by running the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
cat temp_address.bin temp_size.bin > "$INITRD_IMG_NAME.addrsize"
----

> .. Clean up temporary files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Clean up temporary files by running the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
rm -rf temp_address.bin temp_size.bin
----

> .. Create the .ins file based on the paths of these files (kernel.img, initrd.img , initrd.img.addrsize, cmdline) and the memory locations where the data is to be copied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Create the `.ins` file. The file is based on the paths of the `kernel.img`, `initrd.img`, `initrd.img.addrsize`, and `cmdline` files and the memory locations where the data is to be copied.
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
$KERNEL_IMG_PATH $KERNEL_OFFSET
$INITRD_IMG_PATH $OFFSET_HEX
$INITRD_IMG_NAME.addrsize $INITRD_ADDR_SIZE_OFFSET
$CMDLINE_PATH $KERNEL_CMDLINE_OFFSET
----

> . Transfer the `initrd`, `kernel`, `generic.ins` and the `initrd.img.addrsize` parameter files* to the File server. For details on how to transfer the files with FTP and boot, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/performing_a_standard_rhel_8_installation/installing-in-an-lpar_installing-rhel[Installing in an LPAR].    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Transfer the `initrd`, `kernel`, `generic.ins`, and `initrd.img.addrsize` parameter files to the File server. For more information about how to transfer the files with FTP and boot, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/performing_a_standard_rhel_8_installation/installing-in-an-lpar_installing-rhel[Installing in an LPAR].    
```
In this step, is "File" the name of the server, or is this more of a reference to a generic file server? If it's the latter, make "File" lowercase.

. Start the machine.

. Repeat the procedure for all other machines in the cluster.

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz-zvm-lpar]
== Adding IBM z/VM as agents

> If you want to use a static IP for z/VM guest, you must configure the `NMStateConfig` attribute for the z/VM agent so that the IP parameter persists in the second boot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use a static IP for z/VM guest, you must configure the `NMStateConfig` attribute for the z/VM agent so that the IP parameter persists in the second start.
```
Per IBM Style, replace _boot_ with _start_ or _turn on_.

*Note:* Unless stated otherwise, these procedures apply to both z/VM and RHEL KVM installations on IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE.

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz-kvm]

> == Adding IBM Z KVM as Agents

Reviewer: It is a best practice to describe why users might want to complete a task at the beginning of the task. Please revise line 4 to explain why someone might want to add agents in an IBM Z environment.

> == Adding IBM Z KVM as Agents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Adding IBM Z KVM as agents
```
The term "agent" is lowercase unless it starts a sentence or we are referring to a specific `Agent` resource.

> == Adding IBM Z with KVM as Agents

Reviewer 4: this heading should be 
Adding IBM Z KVM as Agents

> For IBM Z with KVM, run the following command to start your IBM Z environment with the downloaded PXE images from the `InfraEnv` resource. After the Agents are created, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers in the same namespace as the `InfraEnv` resource on the management cluster.

Reviewer: Wherever you have variables in code that the user will replace, include callouts in the code to explain what the user should specify. For an example of how to write callouts in asciidoc, see https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/2.11_stage/clusters/hosted_control_planes/create_cluster_kubevirt.adoc#creating-a-hosted-cluster.

  --wait=-1 \
----

> 

Reviewer 2: This will need to be built like the rest of RHACM doc with proper and concise headers, removing the bold tag unless it is clickable, (this is accessibility), files references have to be tagged, self referential language fixed, couple incorrect punctuation.

This needs to be broken out into steps instead of comments in the scripts:

----
INITRD_IMG_NAME=$(echo $INITRD_IMG_PATH | rev | cut -d '/' -f 1 | rev)
# the kernel always sits at offset 0x00
KERNEL_OFFSET=0x00000000
KERNEL_CMDLINE_OFFSET=0x00010480
INITRD_ADDR_SIZE_OFFSET=0x00010408
OFFSET_HEX=$(printf '0x%08x\n' $offset)
# Convert address and size to binary format
printf "$(printf '%016x\n' $offset)" | xxd -r -p > temp_address.bin
printf "$(printf '%016x\n' $initrd_size)" | xxd -r -p > temp_size.bin
# Concatenate address and size binaries
cat temp_address.bin temp_size.bin > "$INITRD_IMG_NAME.addrsize"
# Clean up temporary files
rm -rf temp_address.bin temp_size.bin
----

----

> [#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz-zvm]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz-zvm-lpar]
```
IDs must be unique.

> == Adding IBM Z LPAR as Agents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Adding IBM Z LPAR as agents
```
The term "agent" is lowercase unless it starts a sentence or we are referring to a specific `Agent` resource.

> {ocp-short} 4.16 allows you to add the Logical Partition (LPAR) on IBM Z or IBM LinuxONE as a **Compute node** to a hosted control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add a Logical Partition (LPAR) on IBM Z or IBM LinuxONE as a compute node to a hosted control plane.
```
Revised to avoid anthropomorphic language, per the IBM Style guide. Why would someone want to add a LPAR as a compute node to a hosted control plane? Consider adding that information to this introduction.

> {ocp-short} 4.16 allows you to add the Logical Partition (LPAR) on IBM Z or IBM LinuxONE as a **Compute node** in the a hosted control plane.

Reviewer 4: This should be , 
**Compute node**  to  a hosted control plane. ( instead of using 'in the')

> === Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> . Create a boot parameter file for the agents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a boot parameter file for the agents.
```
Does the user need to know anything else to create the file? Should we specify the file type and where the user should save the file?

Author: @veera-damisetti As i had suggested earlier, do we need to add details such as 'Create a .txt file' and save it in <> location? Pls suggest

Reviewer 4: The user can save any where. lets say ( generic.prm ) 
as the parmfile and boot artifacts will be sent to FTP server later on

+

> .Sample parameter file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Sample parameter file
```

[source,yaml]
----

> rd.neednet=1 coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> ip=<IP_guest_vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network_adaptor>:none nameserver=<nameserver> ai.ip_cfg_override=1 rd.znet=qeth,<network_adaptor_range>,layer2=1 rd.<disk_type>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8

Reviewer: - Consider formatting this sample file to be easier to scan. 
- Wherever you have variables in code that the user will replace, include callouts in the code to explain what the user should specify. For an example of how to write callouts in asciidoc, see https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/2.11_stage/clusters/hosted_control_planes/create_cluster_kubevirt.adoc#creating-a-hosted-cluster.

----

> . Generate the .ins file

Reviewer 4: Update this line to
 Generate the .ins file and initrd.img.addrsize

+

> The .ins file is a special file that includes installation data and is present on the FTP server. It can be accessed from the HMC system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.ins` file includes installation data and is on the FTP server. You can access the file from the HMC system.
```

+

> This file contains details such as mapping of the location of installation data on the disk or FTP server, the memory locations where the data is to be copied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains details such as the location of installation data on the disk or FTP server and the memory locations where the data is to be copied.
```

+

> **Note**: In {ocp-short} 4.16, the .ins file and 'initrd.img.addrsize' are not automatically generated as part of boot-artifacts from the installer. You must generate these files manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The `.ins` file and `initrd.img.addrsize` file are not automatically generated as part of the artifacts from the installer. You must manually generate these files.
```

> .. Run the following commands to get the size of the kernel and initrd. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the following commands to get the size of the `kernel` and `initrd` files:
```
I don't see a reason why this should be a substep instead of a step. Also, I assume that kernel and initrd are files. If my revision is technically inaccurate, feel free to tweak it.

Author: Checked with @veera-damisetti at the time of drafting content,, this should be a sub-step.

+
[source,yaml]
----
KERNEL_IMG_PATH='./kernel.img'
INITRD_IMG_PATH='./initrd.img'
CMDLINE_PATH='./generic.prm'
kernel_size=$(stat -c%s $KERNEL_IMG_PATH )
initrd_size=$(stat -c%s $INITRD_IMG_PATH)
----

> .. Round the kernel size up to the next MiB boundary. This will be the starting address of initrd.img.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Round the kernel size up to the next mebibyte (MiB) boundary. This is the starting address of the `initrd.img` file.
```
Please revise this line to more clearly indicate what "This" refers to. Do you mean that the MiB boundary will be the starting address of the `initrd.img` file?

+
[source,yaml]
----
offset=$(( (kernel_size + 1048575) / 1048576 * 1048576 ))
----

> .. Create the kernel binary patch file holding the initrd address and size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the kernel binary patch file that contains the `initrd` address and size.
```

Reviewer: Please review the suggested revision, which updates the text to comply with IBM Style guidance.

+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer: Be sure to add callouts for any variables that the user needs to replace.

Author: @lahinson There are not variables now, as this snippet is converted to source, bash.

----
INITRD_IMG_NAME=$(echo $INITRD_IMG_PATH | rev | cut -d '/' -f 1 | rev)
# the kernel always sits at offset 0x00
KERNEL_OFFSET=0x00000000
KERNEL_CMDLINE_OFFSET=0x00010480
INITRD_ADDR_SIZE_OFFSET=0x00010408
OFFSET_HEX=$(printf '0x%08x\n' $offset)

# Convert address and size to binary format
printf "$(printf '%016x\n' $offset)" | xxd -r -p > temp_address.bin
printf "$(printf '%016x\n' $initrd_size)" | xxd -r -p > temp_size.bin

# Concatenate address and size binaries
cat temp_address.bin temp_size.bin > "$INITRD_IMG_NAME.addrsize"

# Clean up temporary files
rm -rf temp_address.bin temp_size.bin
----

> .. Create the .ins file based on the paths of these files (kernel.img, initrd.img , initrd.img.addrsize, cmdline) and the memory locations where the data is to be copied.

Reviewer: add a blank line between lines 109 and 110

> .. Create the .ins file based on the paths of these files (kernel.img, initrd.img , initrd.img.addrsize, cmdline) and the memory locations where the data is to be copied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the `.ins` file that is based on the paths of the `kernel.img`, `initrd.img`, `initrd.img.addrsize`, and `cmdline` files and the memory locations where the data is to be copied.
```

+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer: Be sure to include callouts for any variables that the user needs to replace in this YAML file. Also, we typically omit code such as `cat > generic.ins <<EOF` and `EOF` from the docs.

Reviewer 4: In this case, better to keep cat > generic.ins <<EOF and EOF , as this helps to creates the file with the variables populated

Reviewer: Understood. However, in the official documentation, we rewrite code blocks like this to be clearer. If we keep the code as it is, this PR will not pass the required peer review for quality. In cases like this, we usually rewrite the procedure to something like this:
1. Create a YAML file that contains the following content...
2. Save the file...
3. Apply the configuration from the YAML file by entering the following command...

You can see an example in the bare metal docs: https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/2.11_stage/clusters/hosted_control_planes/handle_ingress_bm.adoc

Reviewer 4: oh okay or else we can use the way you are saying earlier .
remove cat and EOF statements 
and we can mention file content as 

$KERNEL_IMG_PATH $KERNEL_OFFSET
$INITRD_IMG_PATH $OFFSET_HEX
$INITRD_IMG_NAME.addrsize $INITRD_ADDR_SIZE_OFFSET
$CMDLINE_PATH $KERNEL_CMDLINE_OFFSET

----
# Create generic.ins file
cat > generic.ins <<EOF
$KERNEL_IMG_PATH $KERNEL_OFFSET
$INITRD_IMG_PATH $OFFSET_HEX
$INITRD_IMG_NAME.addrsize $INITRD_ADDR_SIZE_OFFSET
$CMDLINE_PATH $KERNEL_CMDLINE_OFFSET
EOF
----

> . Transfer the initrd, kernel, generic.ins , initrd.img.addrsize ,  parameter file to the File server. For details on how to transfer the files with FTP and boot, see xref:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/performing_a_standard_rhel_8_installation/installing-in-an-lpar_installing-rhel[Installing in an LPAR].    

Reviewer 4: Installing in an LPAR
is not pointing to the link , if i see the file .
Can you check once @krishnanshruthi

Author: Will check, thank you!

> . Transfer the `initrd`, `kernel`, `generic.ins` , `initrd.img.addrsize` parameter file to the File server. For details on how to transfer the files with FTP and boot, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/performing_a_standard_rhel_8_installation/installing-in-an-lpar_installing-rhel[Installing in an LPAR].    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Transfer the `initrd`, `kernel`, `generic.ins`, and `initrd.img.addrsize` parameter files to the file server. For more information, see _Installing in an LPAR_.     
```
Move the link to an "Additional resources" section for this task: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/performing_a_standard_rhel_8_installation/installing-in-an-lpar_installing-rhel[Installing in an LPAR].

> . Boot the machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Start the machine.
```
Revising per IBM Style.

> . Restart the machine.

Reviewer 4: It should be **Boot the machine**
as restart will change the context here

> . Repeat the procedure for all the other machines in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Repeat the procedure for all other machines in the cluster.
```

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz-zvm]

> == Adding IBM z/VM as Agents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Adding IBM z/VM as agents
```
Revising "Agents" to be lowercase, for reasons mentioned in earlier comments.

> 

Reviewer: It's unusual to introduce a task with a Note. Consider adding a line or two here to explain why someone might want to add IBM z/VM as agents.

> *Note:*  If you want to use a static IP for z/VM guest, you must configure the `NMStateConfig` attribute for the z/VM agent so that the IP parameter persists in the second boot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:**  If you want to use a static IP for z/VM guest, you must configure the `NMStateConfig` attribute for the z/VM agent so that the IP parameter persists in the second boot.
```
From IBM Style: "Although _boot_ is widely recognized among technical users, where usage permits use _start_ or _turn on_."

+
[source,yaml]
----
rd.neednet=1 \
console=ttysclp0  \
ai.ip_cfg_override=1 \
coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> \
ip=<IP_guest_vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network_adaptor>:none \
nameserver=<nameserver> \

> zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0 \ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0 \  <1>
```

rd.znet=qeth,<network_adaptor_range>,layer2=1 \

> rd.<disk_type>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on \ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rd.<disk_type>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on \  <2>
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
rd.neednet=1 cio_ignore=all,!condev \
console=ttysclp0  \
ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal \
coreos.live.rootfs_url=http://<http_server>/rhcos-<version>-live-rootfs.<architecture>.img \// <1>
coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=ttysclp0
ip=<ip>::<gateway>:<netmask>:<hostname>::none nameserver=<dns> \// <2>
rd.znet=qeth,<network_adaptor_range>,layer2=1
rd.<disk_type>=<adapter> \// <3>
zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0
ai.ip_cfg_override=1 \// <4>
----

> <1> For the `coreos.live.rootfs_url` artifact, specify the matching `rootfs` artifact for the `kernel` and `initramfs` that you are booting. Only HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> For the `coreos.live.rootfs_url` artifact, specify the matching `rootfs` artifact for the `kernel` and `initramfs` that you are starting. Only HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.
```

> <2> For the `ip` parameter, assign manually assign the IP address, as described in "Installing a cluster with z/VM on {ibm-z-name} and {ibm-linuxone-name}".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> For the `ip` parameter, manually assign the IP address, as described in _Installing a cluster with z/VM on IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE_.
```

> <3> For installations on DASD-type disks, use `rd.dasd` to specify the DASD where {op-system-first} is to be installed. For installations on FCP-type disks, use `rd.zfcp=<adapter>,<wwpn>,<lun>` to specify the FCP disk where {op-system} is to be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> For installations on DASD-type disks, use `rd.dasd` to specify the DASD where Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) is to be installed. For installations on FCP-type disks, use `rd.zfcp=<adapter>,<wwpn>,<lun>` to specify the FCP disk where RHCOS is to be installed.
```

> <4> Specify this parameter when using an OSA network adapter or Hipersockets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Specify this parameter when you use an Open Systems Adapter (OSA) or HiperSockets.
```
